Removed idiomatic constructs from interactive figures docs (#17471)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/users/interactive.rst

.. toctree::

When working with data, interactivity can be invaluable. The pan/zoom and 
mouse-location tools built into the Matplotlib GUI windows are often sufficient, but 
you can also use the event system to build customized data exploration tools.

Matplotlib ships with :ref:`backends <what-is-a-backend>` binding to
several GUI toolkits (Qt, Tk, Wx, GTK, macOS, JavaScript) and third party
packages provide bindings to `kivy
<https://github.com/kivy-garden/garden.matplotlib>`__ and `Jupyter Lab
<https://github.com/matplotlib/ipympl>`__.  For the figures to be responsive to 

> mouse, keyboard, and critical paint events, the GUI event loop needs to be integrated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mouse, keyboard, and (critically) paint events, the GUI event loop needs to be integrated 
```

.. toctree::

When working with data, interactivity can be invaluable. The pan/zoom and 
mouse-location tools built into the Matplotlib GUI windows are often sufficient, but 
you can also use the event system to build customized data exploration tools.

Matplotlib ships with :ref:`backends <what-is-a-backend>` binding to
several GUI toolkits (Qt, Tk, Wx, GTK, macOS, JavaScript) and third party
packages provide bindings to `kivy
<https://github.com/kivy-garden/garden.matplotlib>`__ and `Jupyter Lab

> <https://github.com/matplotlib/ipympl>`__.  For the figures to be interactive, 

Reviewer: I use "live" here to try and disambiguate it from the several other meanings of the word "interactive".

Author: "live" needs to be defined on first usage - I try to do it a little later but I can pull it up here.

the GUI event loop will need to be integrated with your interactive prompt. 
We recommend using IPython (see :ref:`below <ipython-pylab>`).

The `.pyplot` module provides functions for explicitly creating figures 
that include interactive tools, a toolbar, a tool-tip, and
:ref:`key bindings <key-event-handling>`:

> * `.pyplot.figure`

Reviewer: I would prefer to leave these as definition lists rather than bullet points.

    Creates a new empty `.figure.Figure` or selects an existing figure

* `.pyplot.subplots`
    Creates a new `.figure.Figure` and fills it with a grid of `.axes.Axes`

`.pyplot` has a notion of "The Current Figure" which can be accessed
through `.pyplot.gcf` and a notion of "The Current Axes" accessed
through `.pyplot.gca`.  Almost all of the functions in `.pyplot` pass
through the current `.Figure` / `.axes.Axes` (or create one) as
appropriate.  

Matplotlib keeps a reference to all of the open figures

> created this way so they will not be garbage collected.  You can close

Reviewer 2: Looking at this again, "this way" previously had (when this was one paragraph) some tie in to the 'Current Figure'/'Current Axes' textually, but it doesn't actually in code. So I think this line needs a clarification of what 'this way' is, or this paragraph needs to go before the paragraph on 'current'-ness.

===================

We recommend using IPython for an interactive shell.  In addition to
all of its features (improved tab-completion, magics, multiline editing, etc), 
it also ensures that the GUI toolkit event loop is properly integrated 
with the command line (see :ref:`cp_integration`). 

> In this example, we are modifying a figure via an IPython prompt. 
> The figure is displayed in a Qt5Agg GUI Window. To configure the integration 
> and enable :ref:`interactive mode <controlling-interactive>` use the
> ``%matplotlib`` magic:

Reviewer 2: 'modifying' implies it already exists, but the example is creating from scratch and then modifying. Also, the verb tense changes later, so switch that here as well.

```suggestion
In this example, we create and modify a figure via an IPython prompt. 
The figure displays in a Qt5Agg GUI window. To configure the integration 
and enable :ref:`interactive mode <controlling-interactive>` use the
``%matplotlib`` magic:
```

.. highlight:: ipython

::
   In [1]: %matplotlib
   Using matplotlib backend: Qt5Agg

   In [2]: import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

Create a new figure window:

::

   In [3]: fig, ax = plt.subplots()

Add a line plot of the data to the window:

::

   In [4]: ln, = ax.plot(range(5))

Change the color of the line from blue to orange:

::

   In [5]: ln.set_color('orange')

> If you wish to disable interactive modification of the plot:

Reviewer: It is the automatic re-draw that is disabled, if you have a prompt you can always interactively modify it (even with out the event loop integration), the user then has to intentionally trigger re-draws or spin the event loop.

Author: I'm using interactive modification == automatic redraw, but will clarify that

.. highlight:: ipython

::

>    user@machine:~ $ ipython

Reviewer: I think it is helpful to identify that we are in an IPython session, we should not assume that our readers well recognize the prompt as IPython from the style.

Author: We say that it's IPython in the narrative, but I'm fine putting this line back in. I just don't want them getting tripped up on all the details of your particular Ipython install

   In [2]: import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

Create a new figure window:

::

   In [3]: fig, ax = plt.subplots()

Add a line plot of the data to the window:

::

   In [4]: ln, = ax.plot(range(5))

Change the color of the line from blue to orange:

::

   In [5]: ln.set_color('orange')

If you wish to disable interactive modification of the plot:

::

   In [6]: plt.ioff()

If you wish to re-enable interactive "live" modification of the plot:

::

   In [7]: plt.ion()

In recent versions of ``Matplotlib`` and ``IPython``, it is
sufficient to import `matplotlib.pyplot` and call `.pyplot.ion`. 

> Using the ``%`` magic is guaranteed to work in all versions of ``Matplotlib`` and ``IPython``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``%`` magic is guaranteed to work in all versions of Matplotlib and IPython.
```

- whether created figures are automatically shown
- whether changes to artists automatically trigger re-drawing existing figures

> - when `.pyplot.show` exits: immediately, or after all of the figures have been closed if given no arguments

Reviewer: I think that "returns" is the correct language here.  Processes exit, functions return.

Author: I hate both and think neither is super clear, especially here where it's not super clear that `pyplot.show` is being talked about in the context of it being a function.

Reviewer 3: "exits" is definitely incorrect for a function.  Perhaps `pyplot.show()` (with parentheses) would make things clearer?

> Interactive mode:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If in interactive mode:
```

- newly created figures will be displayed immediately
- figures will automatically redraw when elements are changed

> - `pyplot.show` displays the figures and immediately returns to the prompt

Reviewer 2: That assumes you're in a prompt...

Though in a script, if `plt.ion()` is called, then `plt.show()` immediately returns, and your script exits because nothing is running, so I guess you do end up at a prompt eventually (just not Python's).

Author: Yeah, this is my frustration w/ the plt.show() docs - they kind of assume a prompt too and it's really unclear.

Reviewer 2: Not really? It just says `show` won't return, and nothing about prompts.

Author: First line of the show docs:
>When running in ipython with its pylab mode, display all figures and return to the ipython prompt

And the rest of the docs use the language of blocking but don't saw what's being blocked.

Reviewer 2: That is no longer the first line of `show()` docs.

Author: 🤦

> Not in interactive mode:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If not in interactive mode:
```

Having "If"s here makes more sense to me in terms of parsing this line and the bullets as whole sentences, but not a big deal.

- newly created figures and changes to figures are not displayed until 

> `.pyplot.show` is called again or `.pyplot.pause` exits

Reviewer: The updates will only happen while `show` or `pause` are blocking and well cease after they return.  You can also get an update by calling `fig.canvas.flush_events` or by manually running the event loop.

Additionally, when not in interactive mode the stale hook is turned off so mutating the figure does not trigger `draw_idle`.

Author: I'm so unclear about what you're getting at here/how these suggestions translate into user facing docs.

the plot windows are closed

If you are in non-interactive mode (or created figures while in
non-interactive mode) you may need to explicitly call `.pyplot.show`
to display the windows on your screen.  If you only want to run the
GUI event loop for a fixed amount of time, you can use `.pyplot.pause`.
This will block the progress of your code as if you had called
`time.sleep`, ensure the current window is shown and re-drawn if needed, 
and run the GUI event loop (so the windows are "live" for
interactive modification) for the specified period of time.

The GUI event loop being integrated with your command prompt and 
the figures being in interactive mode are independent of each other. 
If you use `pyplot.ion` but have not arranged for the event loop integration, 
your figures will appear but will not be "live" while the prompt is waiting for input. 
You will not be able to pan/zoom and the figure may not even render
(the window might appear black, transparent, or as a snapshot of the
desktop under it).  Conversely, if you configure the event loop
integration, displayed figures will be "live" while waiting for input
at the prompt, regardless of pyplot's "interactive mode". 

> The figures will also be "live" if you use ``pyplot.show(block=True)``, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It any case the figures will be "live" if you use ``pyplot.show(block=True)``, 
```

Reviewer 2: *In* any case,

Author: in any case is an ambigious reference 'cause it's not clear what the cases are ...

- whether created figures are automatically shown
- whether changes to artists automatically trigger re-drawing existing figures
- when `.pyplot.show()` returns: immediately, or after all of the figures have been closed when given no arguments

If in interactive mode:

- newly created figures will be displayed immediately
- figures will automatically redraw when elements are changed
- `pyplot.show()` displays the figures and immediately returns

If not in interactive mode:

- newly created figures and changes to figures are not displayed until 

>    * `.pyplot.show()` returns and is called again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * `.pyplot.show()` is called
```

>    * `.pyplot.pause()` returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * `.pyplot.pause()` is called
```

>    * ` fig.canvas.flush_events` is called

Reviewer 2: This is not a reference, so should be doubled ticks.

Reviewer: Why aren't these failing the build?

Reviewer: The answer to my question is that there is a leading space on the third bullet point which means it was neither a literal or a reference.

> * newly created figures and changes to figures are not displayed until 
>    * `.pyplot.show()` returns and is called again
>    * `.pyplot.pause()` returns
>    * ` fig.canvas.flush_events` is called
> * `pyplot.show()` runs the GUI event loop and does not return until all the plot windows are closed

Reviewer 2: Use the same bullet style, at least for top-level.
```suggestion
- newly created figures and changes to figures are not displayed until 
   * `.pyplot.show()` returns and is called again
   * `.pyplot.pause()` returns
   * ` fig.canvas.flush_events` is called
- `pyplot.show()` runs the GUI event loop and does not return until all the plot windows are closed
```

Other Python prompts
====================

> Interactive mode works in the default Python prompt:

Reviewer: There is no setting to change to _not_ make this work, I prefer the original wording.

Author: I'm confused 'cause I just removed the leading clause so the meaning doesn't actually change.

Reviewer: sorry I miss read as "works by default in the Python prompt" which is a very different sentence.

to select and enable it.

If you only need to use the classic notebook, you can use

.. sourcecode:: ipython

>   %matplotlib notebook

Reviewer 2: Side note, did we at some point decide to use `%matplotlib nbagg`? I thought we decided one was better than the other (though they're aliases).

Reviewer: it is called `nbagg` on our side which should read as "N B Agg', but it was pointed out that if you are not familiar with our backend naming conventions the obvious the obvious reading is "N Bag" which is not great, hence the `%matplotlib notebook` alias.  I think we should prefer `notebook` when writing docs.

> which uses the `.backend_nbagg` backend which is installed by Matplotlib; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which uses the `.backend_nbagg` backend which part of Matplotlib; 
```

"is installed by" implies it is an external package that we depend on which it is a first-party backend.

Reviewer 2: which part of -> from

however, nbagg does not work in Jupyter Lab.

GUIs + Jupyter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can also use one of the non-ipympl GUI backends in a Jupyter Notebook. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use one of the non-``ipympl`` GUI backends in a Jupyter Notebook. 
```

Reviewer: I am also not sure I would call `ipympl ` a GUI backend
